---
title: 'CPRE 2340 Term Paper: My Code of Ethics'
date: 2022-12-09
permalink: /posts/2022/12/blog-post-1/
tags:
  - ethics
---

I originally wrote this as a paper for CPRE 2340: Legal, Professional, and Ethical Issues in Cyber Systems in 2022. Some edits have been made to better reflect my opinions today, but please keep in mind that I wrote this when I was 19 and taking my first cyber security class ever. 

CPRE 2340 Term Paper: My Code of Ethics
======

Before taking this class, I really thought ethics would be more black-and-white. There had to be a right and a wrong answer in most situations, right? Well, it is safe to say that I was very wrong. Not only is it very complicated, but there are many different ways to look at every situation. The ethical theories people subscribe to, and their personal experiences and beliefs play a huge factor into what they perceive to be wrong or right. In this essay, I have compiled a personal code of ethics for myself that I will use throughout my cyber security career. 

The first in my personal code of ethics is to always act with integrity. In my personal and private life, I want to be considered to be a trustworthy and honest person. This principle also lays the groundwork for the rest of my ethical principles. If I do not act with integrity, how would I hold myself accountable for sticking to the rest of my code? 

I have had the belief that it is important to act in a way in situations where the outcome benefits the most people, even if it is at the expense of others. In some cases, that would include putting myself at risk. While I had this belief before coming into this class, learning about ethical theories helped me identify with one and provided me with guidelines to better explain my beliefs. I have mentioned this in previous essays, but out of the ethical theories I was introduced to in this class, I have become most fond of utilitarianism. I like it because it is a consequentialist theory and can be used situationally. The main idea behind utilitarianism is that “an act is right if it tends to increase aggregate utility and wrong if it tends to decrease it.”<sup>1</sup> To me, it just makes the most sense and aligns most closely with my personal values and worldview. 

A joke that gets mentioned a lot amongst us cyber majors when asked why we are pursuing this career is that we do it for the money. While this is somewhat true in most cases, I hope that most of us have some sort of passion for computers and cyber security and a want to help others. Even when discussing breaches, like we did for Target and Home Depot in class, there are always so many numbers thrown around and talk about how much money they lost or its effect on the stock market.<sup>2</sup> This is a very capitalistic approach to security that I would like to avoid as much as possible in my own practice of security. Obviously, that is going to be difficult to do in the capitalist society that we live in, but I think a more empathetic approach to problems is just as important and effective. In the reading about emotional intelligence, it mentions how empathy is important for building relationships and understanding the perspectives of others.<sup>3</sup> This connection should be just as important and motivating for improving security as the risk of a loss of money or a PR nightmare is. 

I personally have no interest in selling my soul to a corporate job or government entity and dedicating my entire life to it. I also have no intention of giving up my hobbies or parts of my identity to achieve a higher status in a job. For this reason, an ethical principle of mine is to always prioritize my personal identity over my professional gain. When discussing cyber security impacts on the workplace in lecture 13 this semester, we talked about how some jobs require a security clearance and what that entails.<sup>4</sup> To me, it seemed like a process that could be very infringing on my life, even if it could benefit my career. For example, I have foreign citizenship that, according to the Office of the Director of National Security, would not directly disqualify me from a clearance but could make it more difficult to obtain one along with any other parts they do not like about me.<sup>5</sup> This is part of my identity that I have the choice of giving up, but will not because it is more important to me than any job will ever be. Obviously, not every job requires this type of clearance, and I also would not necessarily want to have jobs that require them, but it still is an infringement on what jobs I can get. This also means prioritizing my health and well-being over my job. I was surprised to see that we talked about the importance of mental health and taking care of ourselves in this class.<sup>6</sup> Being in the midst of prep week and rereading the slides really was a wake-up call but also a reminder that the need to prioritize me will never go away. 

Unfortunately, my personal code of ethics might be too radical to have a high position of power for a job. I do not necessarily want to be a boss, but I would like to be a trusted person and be able to lead some projects. I found a quote about what it means to be a leader from one of our readings by Frances McIntosh that I really liked. It was “A manager is an overseer, ensuring the work gets done, someone who holds a position. A leader is an influencer, a grower of people — not a position or title but a way of being.”<sup>7</sup> I really like it because it is how I feel about some titles of positions. I do not want to tell people what to do. I want to learn and grow with others. I want to guide and train others. 

The biggest area that I think I will struggle with in the future is discussing technical details. I have only really taken one cyber security course so far, so I cannot be too hard on myself, but I already get confused by all the different acronyms and technical language. For example, we discussed data breaches in class a couple of weeks ago, with the topic surrounding whether or not to report some slightly suspicious activity.<sup>8</sup> The prompt used some phrases that I was not quite familiar with or just forgot. Obviously, this is not very hard to find a solution to, I can ask questions and google stuff, but at first, it is always a bit daunting and hard to get the full picture of the problem if you do not know what is going on. On the flip side of this, it is a good soft skill to have the ability to explain technical stuff to people without tech background knowledge.<sup>9</sup> I already have a lot of practice with this due to explaining my projects and classes at school to my family and friends. This is definitely a skill I should continue to improve upon, along with understanding the technical stuff a bit better myself. A combination of these skills would be super helpful in communicating with other departments within a company someday. 

Now that I have a personal code of ethics, I hope making ethical decisions in my future jobs will be less difficult. This list will most likely change at least slightly throughout my life, but I’m glad to have started to think about this already. I assume most cyber professionals did not think about their future ethical decisions as much as we did in this class. This class has helped me learn about a lot of security events I had not heard of previously and form my own opinions about them. My code of ethics and knowledge obtained from this class will help start off my cyber career and lead me in the future. 

## Works Cited

1. “A Gift of Fire: Social, Legal, and Ethical Issues for Computing Technology” by Sara Baase and Timothy M. Henry (pg. 33)
2. Lecture 24: Incident Response by Dr. Benjamin Blakely
3. “13 Signs of High Emotional Intelligence” by Justin Bariso (https://www.inc.com/justin-bariso/13-things-emotionally-intelligent-people-do.html)
4. Lecture 13: Cyber Impacts on the Workplace by Dr. Benjamin Blakely
5. Security Executive Agent Directive 4: National Adjudicative Guidelines from the Office of the Director of National Security (https://www.odni.gov/files/NCSC/documents/Regulations/SEAD-4-Adjudicative-Guidelines-U.pdf)
6. Lecture 26: Leadership and Management by Dr. Benjamin Blakely
7. “What Makes A Good Leader? Key Differences Between Management And Leadership” by Forbes Coaches Council (https://www.forbes.com/sites/francesbridges/2018/02/07/10-ways-to-make-people-like-you-from-how-to-make-friends-and-influence-people/?sh=245eccb24bb4)
8. Lecture 23: Breaches by Dr. Benjamin Blakely
9. Lecture 25: Critical Communication Skills by Dr. Benjamin Blakely