---
title: 'General Education Reflection: How Studying German made Me a Better Engineer'
date: 2025-04-21
permalink: /posts/2025/04/blog-post-3/
tags:
  - general education
  - reflection
  - german
---

Reflecting on the influence my German classes have on my engineering work. This is the general education reflection for CPRE 4940: Portfolio Assessment.

How Studying German made Me a Better Engineer
======

General education classes have greatly impacted my education at Iowa State, due to my second major in German LCP (Languages and Cultures Professions). I took an extra general education class per semester to get all my German credits and studied abroad to obtain this major. Even though I took so many general education classes, they were all in the German department, which can often be difficult to relate back to engineering. I often feel like I am using a different part of my brain when I am taking these classes, and I hadn’t previously considered how it might influence my engineering work. However, I am excited to share how my general education work has helped me become a better engineer. 

Learning a second language is a massive benefit for engineers beyond just opening them up to more job opportunities in the future. Many engineering students recognize this, as many of them take on a language as a second major or minor. If you want to communicate something in another language, it forces you to think about how to say something in different terms and an often more limited vocabulary. This is a helpful skill because it allows you to think of other perspectives and improve your communication skills. Being an engineer is not just being a problem solver, but also being a good communicator and being able to work well with others, write good technical reports, and share your ideas effectively. 

A class where I worked a lot with others and improved my communication skills was GER 3050: Conversations, which, as the name implies, is a class centered around talking. This includes talking to other students in casual conversation, speaking in small groups for team activities, and giving presentations to the class. At least one class a week, our professor would give us a group activity where we would work in groups to come up with a solution and present it to the class. For example, if she wanted us to come up with a vacation itinerary for a city in Germany, we would have to decide what it should include and the price, and then pitch it to the class and vote on who had the best one. These were great problem-solving activities because we shared our ideas with each other, made compromises, and had to come up with a combined solution as a group. 

GER 3040: German for Global Professionals is a class designed to prepare students to work in Germany and use German professionally. Because of this direct correlation to many careers, it is required for both the LCP major and minor. In the class, we learned how to make a German CV, researched German companies, and learned necessary vocabulary for describing various industries. While it clearly was helpful for preparation to work abroad, it also helped with skills that could be useful for any job. 

In GER 3200: Germany Today, we discussed topics in contemporary German culture and society, such as current events, art, historical landmarks, and political parties, groups, and movements. We read and discussed articles as a class. Each student researched a different political party or movement and presented on it to the class. The class involved a lot of research and discussing opinions and perspectives, which is a necessary skill when working with other engineers. Additionally, when working in engineering, it is crucial to stay up-to-date with the news and the current political climate of the country you are working in to ensure your work is being used for ethical reasons. It is also essential to know the general consensus of the near future of your career field, so that you can plan accordingly, if there is an expected increase or decrease in the need for your work. 

Last semester, I took GER 3710: The Holocaust in Text, Image, and Memory. The class teaches the events surrounding the Holocaust using historical facts, autobiographies, poems, analysis by historians, and art. Learning through so many different types of media involves making connections and piecing together the information you knew before and anything new you learn. Gathering information and piecing together your understanding of a topic is also an important skill in engineering. Another critical thing to consider when learning about the Holocaust is the technology that was used to commit the atrocities. Learning about machines that are used to harm others brings up the importance of making ethical decisions when deciding what engineering work to take on. 

Overall, my German major and the classes I took for it helped me learn and improve upon a lot of soft skills that will help me in my future engineering career. From improving upon discussion and presentation skills to thinking about ethical considerations, these skills are essential to be a good engineer, even when they aren’t only learned in engineering classes. 