---
title: 'A Reflective Journey: Navigating My Cumulative Experience at Iowa State University'
date: 2025-03-28
permalink: /posts/2025/03/blog-post-2/
tags:
  - reflection
---

This is a cumulative reflection I wrote for CPRE 4940: Portfolio Assessment.

Reflection
======

Iowa State University has given me the opportunity to design, create, document, and present systems in a team environment and individually. Beyond the classroom, I have learned through library resources, other students, student organizations, leadership positions, and teaching assistantships. Through my undergraduate experience, I have learned very valuable technical and interpersonal skills that will help me in graduate school and my future career. 

Almost every core curriculum class involves a project where you have to design a system using the knowledge, skills, and tools you have learned in the class. The design process involves developing a creative problem statement or storyline for the project and deciding how to tackle the problem technically. A project that I decided to work on alone was the final project for CPRE 2810: Digital Logic. Because I did it solo, I had to come up with an idea, design the system, implement and test the project, as well as write the 30-page documentation all by myself. A year later, for the main project in CPRE 3810: Computer Organization and Assembly Level Programming, I worked with two other students who I met in the lab. We split up the work evenly amongst ourselves to design individual components but later had to collaborate a lot more when putting all the parts together. This meant spending many hours together, so becoming friends and trying to have a fun time when working together was necessary for the team dynamic. This involved a lot of humor and assigning someone to bring snacks for the whole group every time we met. A different team dynamic I encountered for a project was for ENGL 3140: Technical Communication. It was a group for an online class where none of us knew each other previously, and we all were in different majors. This involved more work at the start of the project to get to know each other and coordinate when and how to meet. But eventually we split up work based on our experience from our various majors and interests, which made the work get done very efficiently. These different projects have taught me different ways to approach making design choices individually and as a group. I have also learned to work in vastly different team environments successfully and am ready to adapt to any groups I will be a part of in the future.

External resources provided by Iowa State, as well as ones I have sought out on my own, such as other students, have been instrumental in my learning experience. The databases of scientific research papers and textbooks that can be accessed through the Parks Library website have helped me when doing research for papers and presentations. This gave me higher quality sources for my projects, in turn making my projects higher quality. When working on the labs for CPRE 3810, I would work alongside another student, and we would bounce ideas off each other on how to approach various parts of the project and help each other out when either of us got stuck. Similarly, earlier this semester, I was working on the first project for CPRE 4500: Distributed Systems and Middleware, and I could not figure out how to even run the program correctly. I saw some other students working on the same project and we exchanged what we understood about how to approach the problem. Often in my undergraduate studies, it has been very helpful to receive help from other students to get me going in the right direction for a project. 

As you advance through the undergraduate program, the classes sometimes reuse the technologies you learned as a freshman but apply them in more complex ways. In order to be able to use them, you often need to learn new skills associated with the technology, because you cannot always get as far with the basics. For example, we used C throughout CPRE 1850, 2880, and 3080, but it was always used in different and more complex ways. On the other hand, you sometimes run into different technologies that you had never even heard of before and need to learn something new. These two circumstances show the importance of continuous learning when encountering new problems. There have also been a few times where I learned something at a summer internship and was able to apply it in my coursework. For example, I have used Python in many of my internships, which helped me with Python projects at school. 

My learning at Iowa State did not just happen in the classroom but also through student organizations and teaching assistantships. By attending Hacking and Cyber Security Club (HACC) meetings, I learned about cyber security concepts and tools not covered in coursework and heard presentations from industry professionals and professors about their specific fields of work or research. I have also been an active member and leader in Alpha Sigma Kappa: Women in Technical Studies (AΣK) for almost two years now. I serve as the chapter's Vice President of Risk Management, which has taught me how to manage conflicts and communicate effectively in uncomfortable situations. Being a teaching assistant for two classes, CYBE 3310 and CYBE 4360x, has given me the ability to understand the course content better than when I first learned it. It has also involved a lot of problem-solving because students often run into issues that are not always straightforward to fix.

Despite having a very positive undergraduate experience at ISU, there are some things that I would have done differently if I could do it again. The main thing I would change is that I would have gotten more involved sooner. I was very shy in high school and was still that way when I started the Cyber Security Engineering program as a freshman. This meant that I was scared to try new things and reach out to people for help. I isolated myself a lot and didn’t make a lot of friends and, therefore didn’t learn as much. It wasn’t until the end of my third semester that I started getting to know the people in my classes and making new friends. Around that time was also when I started attending HACC meetings. I also only joined AΣK at the beginning of my junior year. If I had spoken to more people sooner and gotten more involved earlier on in my undergraduate time, I probably would have had an easier time and learned more. 